---
description: >-
  BetterForm has a collection of helper Java Script functions that are used
  within JavaScript to allow  easy access to common complex code.
---

# BF Utility Functions

<table><thead><tr><th width="306.5">Function</th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Actions</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>BF.actionsClear()</td><td>Clears the action script buffer halting all subsequent actions ( current action completes)</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Errors</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>BF.errorClearAll()</td><td>Clears the error cache</td></tr><tr><td>BF.errorGetAll()</td><td>Returns all current errors</td></tr><tr><td>BF.errorThrow(errorCode, errorDescription, info)</td><td>Creates an error</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Actions</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>BF.namedAction(name, options)</td><td>Runs a named action, options are propagated to all actions within the named action.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Misc</strong></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>BF.getPaths(object, JPquery)</td><td>Returns JSONPath query on passed object </td></tr><tr><td>BF.getQueryParam(key)</td><td>Returns the URL query key value</td></tr><tr><td>BF.i18n(key)</td><td>Internationalization translations. Returns the key's value in its correct language.</td></tr><tr><td>BF.getUUID()</td><td>Returns a UUID</td></tr><tr><td>BF.pwaSetManifest(manifest);</td><td>Sets the manifest for PWA apps. <code>manifest</code> is a JSON object that confirms to a standard PWA manifest object.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>BF.getVersion()</strong></td><td>Returns an object with version info: <code>{ basecode, app }</code>.<br><strong>basecode</strong> is the build-time version from <code>package.json</code>. <strong>app</strong> is the dynamic site version from <code>site.version</code>.<br><em>Available in basecode v3.2.19+</em>.</td></tr><tr><td>BF.rebuildReactivity(object)</td><td>This function is normally run upon the completion of a <code>function</code> internally by the BF actions processor.<br>It recursively scans the object passed and adds new reactive keys to keys that are new or do not have reactivity. You will not need to use this within a function unless that function has a callback that later mutates a reactive object. Eg: setTimeout() which takes a callback.</td></tr><tr><td>BF.socketConnect()</td><td>Connects the client to the BF server via a socket</td></tr><tr><td>BF.socketDisconnect()</td><td>Disconnects the client from the BF servers<br>( Goes off line)</td></tr></tbody></table>
