# 3. Create your first app

## What is an "App"?

An app in BetterForms is the front-end code for an entire web application. Apps can have many environments. Each environment is technically a separate app.

To learn more about the various settings you can configure in a site, see this page:

{% content-ref url="../../reference/site-settings/" %}
[site-settings](../../reference/site-settings/)
{% endcontent-ref %}

## Configuring your first Site

In the apps menu of the [BetterForms IDE](https://app.fmbetterforms.com/#/sites), click the **Create / New App** button.

Fill out the fields shown in the General tab as instructed. Be sure to select the server that you created earlier from the dropdown list, then click the **Set Credentials** button to securely enter the credentials for the BetterForms user that you created in Step 1.

You'll also need to enter the common hook set name for your site. This can be 'app' for your first app. For more info about what this is for, see [this page](3.-introduction-to-hooks.md).

Add a domain name. If you want to use a custom domain name, see [this guide](../../reference/advanced-configuration/custom-domains.md).

{% hint style="info" %}
While you're testing and learning BetterForms, it will be helpful to have **Dev Mode** enabled for your site.&#x20;
{% endhint %}

Save your site and you will see your app is preparing in development environment.

Click on the three dots menu of the app environment and navigate to Credentials. Add your helperfile name and credentials you created in [step 1.](installation.md)

When everything is ready, you can test your integration at <mark style="color:red;">`https://YOURDOMAIN/api`</mark> and if you see a json object by default on the pate you are ready to go!

Now you can proceed to creating your first page!
